---
layout: post
title: "Bama Roster Update 7/24/2024"
date: 2024-07-24 12:00:00 +0000
categories: updates
---




# **Let’s talk Defense!**
Kalen DeBoer acted fast and lured sitting South Alabama Head Coach Kane Wommack away from Mobile, AL to Tuscaloosa as the Defensive Coordinator. Kane Wommack is familiar with Kalen DeBoer as they spent a year together as the coordinators for Indiana in 2019. Kane runs a 4-2-5 base defense, also known as the “Swarm D”. He learned this defense as a Grad assistant under his father, Dave Wommack, at Ole Miss from 2012-2013. So what is this 4-2-5 defense? As the numbers suggest, this defense displays 4 defensive linemen, 2 off-ball line backers, and 5 Defensive backs. While it is different than the base 3-4 defense that Nick Saban ran, it is very similar to the Nickle look Saban often used with a Star defensive back. Many positions have the same responsibilities, but the terminology has changed. Below is a summary of the new terminology:

Bandit – The bandit will be a traditional Defensive End who’s responsibilities are to set the edge, plug up running lanes, and pressure the quarterback. Justin Eboigbe last season would have fit this role perfectly
Nose/Defensive Tackle – Same exact position in the 3-4 Saban ran. Big boys stopping the run and pushing the pocket
Wolf – Traditional Edge rusher, previously referred to as the Sam Linebacker. Will Anderson and Dallas Turner are our most recent examples
Sting – Weakside linebacker. Jihad Campbell played this role last season
Mike – Middle linebacker, same as the 3-4
Husky – Similar to the Star role in a 3-4, this will be the 5th DB. While the Star was primarily a coverage back, the Husky will play closer to the line of scrimmage allowing for creative blitz packages and additional run support
Rover – This is the Strong Safety. They will line up with the Free Safety in a 2 deep set, but often are closer to the formation and have additional man coverage responsibilities. 
Boundary cornerback – Short side corner. Often on an island or with less safety help. Kool-Aid would have played the Boundary
Field cornerback – Wide side corner. Manages the larger side of the field, will often receive help from the Rover or Huskey
 

If you would like a more in-depth explanation of Kane’s defense, see my sources below:

https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/5207919/2024/01/17/alabama-defense-film-study-kane-wommack/

https://youtu.be/286PWOYbOpI?si=y1IfPlwlb2o-Dw2C
 As always, reach out with any comments or questions that you may have!

 

Roll Tide,

Jake Q