---
layout: post
title: "National Early Signig Day 2025"
date: 2024-12-10 12:00:00 +0000
categories: updates
---

## Hello and Roll Tide! 

Early National Signing Day ended Friday December 6th. Alabama had 21 of their 22 commitments sign National Letters of Intent. There were flips both ways, yet the Tide still sit with the #2 recruiting class in the country. Despite being ranked #11 in the College Football Playoffs, Alabama was not selected to compete for the National Title. Alabama will play Michigan in the ReliaQuest Bowl in Tampa, Florida on New Year’s Eve. As a result, players have started to hit the portal. I will review Early Signing day and list transfers. Let’s go!

## Transfer Portal Tracker:

·        Defensive Tackle Jehiem Oatis (Sophomore) to enter the Portal

·        Linebacker Keanu Koht (RS Junior) to enter the Portal

·        Defensive Back Jahlil Hurley (RS Freshman) to enter the Portal

·        Wide Receiver Kobe Prentice (Junior) to enter the Portal

·        Wide Receiver Caleb Odom (Freshman) to enter the Portal

·        Wide Receiver Kendrick Law (Junior) to enter the Portal

·        Offensive Lineman Miles McVay (RS Freshman) to enter the Portal

·        Tight End Danny Lewis (RS Sophomore) to enter the Portal

·        Offensive Lineman Naquil Betrand (RS Freshman) to enter the Portal

·        Defensive Lineman Hunter Osborne (RS Freshman) to enter the Portal

 

## Early Signing Day Review:

Alabama was able to sign 21 recruits during the Early Signing Day window. Bama both flipped a commitment from another school and lost a commitment. RB Jace Clarizio decommitted from Michigan State on November 26th, then committed to Alabama. However, on Early Signing Day, Jace once again flipped back to Michigan State. 4-star Running Back Akylin Dear signed with the Tide, so losing Jace was not too significant. Alabama did flip a 4-start wide receiver from LSU, Derek Meadows. Alabama lost two wide receiver commitments earlier in the year and have 3 entering the portal. This was a big pick-up as Wide Receiver quickly became a team need. Like Caleb Odom (leaving via transfer portal), Meadows is a physical receiver at 6-5, 200lbs. He will likely fill the role that Kalen DeBoer and staff had planned for Caleb. Another developing story surrounds Alabama commit Ty Haywood. Ty did not sign during the early window and is linked to the Michigan Wolverines. Michigan recently flipped top QB prospect Bryce Underwood for $12MM and are expected to pursue Haywood via an NIL deal.

Outside of the flips mentioned above, Alabama signed the rest of the class as expected. Alabama’s class is #2 nationally with 4 5-stars (including Haywood), 15 4-stars, and 3 3-stars. 22 commitments is a bit on the smaller side of classes, however these recruits are very highly rated. According to 247Sports, Alabama’s prospects have an average rating of 93.55. Below is a list of the 21 player who signed:

·        5-Star QB Keelon Russell from Texas

·        5-Star OL Michael Carroll from Pennsylvania

·        5-Star DB Dijon Lee from California

·        4-Star OL Jackson Lloyd from California

·        4-Star RB Akylin Dear from Mississippi

·        4-Star LB Justin Hill from Ohio

·        4-Star DB Ivan Taylor from Florida

·        4-Star DB Chuck McDonald from California

·        4-Star LB Darrell Johnson from Georgia

·        4-Star WR Derek Meadows from Nevada

·        4-Star TE Kaleb Edwards from California

·        4-Star OL Micah DeBose from Alabama

·        4-Star WR Lotzeir Brooks from New Jersey

·        4-Star LB Luke Metz from Georgia

·        4-Star LB Abduall Sanders Jr. from California

·        4-Star DL Kevonte Henry from California

·        4-Star TE Marshall Pritchett from Georgia

·        4-Star DL Steve Mboumoua from Mississippi

·        3-Star OL Mal Waldrep from Alabama

·        3-Star DL London Simmons from Mississippi

·        3-Star K Alex Asparuhov from California

The signing window re-opens on February 5th and officially closes April 1st. Keep an eye on Ty Haywood when the window re-opens. All signs point to a Michigan flip, but Keelon Russell has continued to recruit him. I do not expect many flips when the window re-opens as Kalen DeBoer will likely shift his focus to the Transfer Portal. Should any big new break regarding the Portal or the 2025 class, I will send updates. 

In the next few weeks I will review the 2025 Offensive and Defensive commitments, keep you updated on Transfer portal news, and Preview the ReliaQuest Bowl against the Michigan Wolverines.

As always, reach out with any questions or comments that you have. If you know anyone interested in joining the newsletter, send their email my way. We are now up to 85 members, thank you for the support!

Roll Tide!

-Jake
