---
layout: post
title: "Week 2 Recap - Louisiana-Monroe"
date: 2025-09-11 12:00:00 +0000
categories: updates
---

## Hello and Roll Tide!

Alabama entered the win column on Saturday as they dominatedLouisiana-Monroe. The Tide showed their fans exactly what they wanted to see onall sides of the ball. DeBoer and staff successfully motivated the team to givefull effort on every play, leading to a 73-0 shutout. This is the biggestshutout win since 1951 when Alabama beat Delta state 89-0. The blowout allowedthe Tide to give playing time to all scholarship players, and notably all threequarterbacks threw for a touchdown. Below is an injury report, depth notes, anda week 2 recap. Let’s go! 

## Injury Notes:
    -Ryan Williams remains in concussion protocol
    -Jam Miller went through warmups pre-game beforeULM, but did not play. Is considered day-to day
    -Jah-Marien Latham is considered day-to-day
    -Tim Keenen is day-to-day according to DeBoer 

## Depth Notes:
    -Gino VanDeMark started at Right Guard, even withRoberts returning
    -Jaeden Roberts came into the game in the 2ndquarter, took 14 offensive snaps
    -Michael Carroll had the most backup snaps atoffensive tackle (28)
    -Lotzier Brooks (#17) started in place of injuredRyan Williams
    -Kevin Riley got the start at running back
    -London Simmons started next to James Smith at DT
    -Cole Adams is the primary punt returner
    -Austin Mack remains the backup to Ty Simpson
    -Aeryn Hampton is no longer with the AlabamaFootball team 


## Week 2 Recap: Louisiana-Monroe
***Overview:*** Alabama came out and delivered a flawlessperformance against the under-manned Warhawks of ULM. Yes, they are amiddle-tier Sun Belt program, but Alabama went above and beyond in their effortand execution. 73-0 is double that of the betting line (34.5-point favorites)not to mention the defense delivered a shutout. Everyone who stepped on thefield gave their best effort.

***Offense:*** Alabama’s offense clicked all night rackingup 583 total yards. The three quarterbacks combined for 371 passing yards and 7touchdowns. Ty Simpson was a perfect 17 for 17 as he looked comfortable andpoised. Mack was a consistent 8 of 10 with two touchdowns and Keelon scored twotouchdowns on only 6 pass attempts. Both of his touchdown passes wereimpressive: Keelon climbed the pocket, drawing in a defender, to open up Cole Adamsfor an 18-yard touchdown; Keelon’s 20-yard touchdown pass to MJ Chirgwindeveloped very quickly, as he was able to deliver a dart  to the front corner of the endzone. Receiverswere open and the line provided time in the pocket. Mr. Reliable, GermieBernard, led the team with 67 yards and two touchdown receptions. Alabama evengot creative tossing a shovel pass to Bernard that he took 16-yards to thehouse. Lotzier Brooks looked great filling in for Ryan Williams. He caught 4passes for 58 yards. Brooks flashed his athleticism in the 1stquarter as he beat his man and made a jumping catch along the 3-yard line.Brooks looked like freshman year Waddle out there. Others who caught TD passesinclude Isaiah Horton (1st touchdown with Alabama), Cole Adams, MJChirgwin (walk-on), Josh Cuevas, and Kaleb Edwards (1st collegiatetouchdown). It was a great day for the passing attack and Alabama was effectiveon the ground. Bama rushed the ball 36 times for 212 yards (5.9 average). KevinRiley was the starting back and sure looked the part. He averaged 6.3 yards percarry over 11 attempts and broke a run for 22-yards. He has been quite thesurprise for Alabama after there was little news about him during fall camp.True freshman AK Dear also joined the rushing assault, most notably with a56-yard touchdown run. The offensive line blocked well in the run and passgame. It is worth noting that Geno VanDeMark did in fact start at right guardeven with Jaeden Roberts healthy. This will be worth tracking as the Tide takeson Wisconsin on Saturday.

***Defense:*** Shutouts are rare in college football asthey are a display of complete dominance. And on Saturday, the Tide’s defense shutdown everything that ULM tried to do. Alabama only allowed 148 total yards. ULMquarterbacks struggled going a combined 10 of 18 for 55 yards with 1interception. Alabama’s rushing defense was stout, holding ULM to 93 yards on32 attempts (2.9 yards per carry). James Smith had a great game up front as heplugged running holes and pressured the QB. James finished with 3 tackles for aloss as he led by example on the defensive line. The D-line looked much betteragainst ULM and provided valuable experience for younger players filling in with TimKeenan’s absence. Of those, London Simmons and Isaia Faga saw the most snapsalongside Smith. The Tide finished with 12 tackles for a loss and a forcedfumble/recovery. Redshirt freshman QB Reese forced the fumble and had another twosolo tackles. Him and Cayden Jones seemed to handle the middle linebacker roleswith confidence, boding well for Alabama’s future. Linebacker Justin Jeffersonshowed off his hands with an interception. While he did not record a stat, QuaRussaw looked good off the edge. He contained the outside run game and wasexplosive off the line, disrupting the passer. Alongside him, Yhonzae Pierre tookgreat reps at the Wolf position. Alabama did not record a sack, but their passrush significantly impacted the ULM quarterbacks. Overall great performance,even against a team with way less talent. The effort level was there and that’sthe most important thing we can ask for moving forward. 

***Special Teams:*** Conor Talty made his only field goalattempt from 46-yards out as well as 6 extra points. Backup kicker Peter Notaromade all 4 of his PATs as well. Cole Adams looked good returning punts: 2 puntreturns for 45 yards (long of 36 yards). Alabama did not punt the football. After a disappointing loss this is exactly what the fans andplayers needed to see. Let’s see if they use this newfound determination onSaturday when they host the Wisconsin Badgers. 

Keep and eye out for anothernewsletter previewing the Badgers tomorrow around noon!
As always, reach out with any questions or comments. If youknow of anyone who wants to join the newsletter, send their info my way!

Roll Tide!
-Jake