---
layout: post
title: "Week 9 Preview - South Carolina"
date: 2025-10-24 12:00:00 +0000
categories: updates
---

## Hello and Roll Tide!

Alabama is traveling to Columbia, South Carolina to take on the Gamecocks on Saturday afternoon at William-Brice Stadium. The Tide look to finish their impressive stretch of conference games before a bye week. Alabama is walking into the hostile home of underperforming South Carolina who are dying for an upset. Kalen and staff know that they are more dangerous than their record suggests. Below are injury notes, a South Carolina preview, and week 9 storylines. Let’s go!


### **Injury Notes:**
-   Danny Lewis was downgraded to OUT
-   Derek Meadows is available after missing last week with a concussion
-   Geno VanDeMark is QUESTIONABLE
-   Lotzier Brooks is DOUBTFUL


### **Week 9 Preview: South Carolina Gamecocks**
Alabama and South Carolina have only played 17 times and Alabama leads the series 14-3. Alabama won the first 10 games in this series but South Carolina has made it competitive winning 3 of the last 7. Most recently at William-Brice Stadium the Tide took down the Gamecocks 47-23 in 2019. Prior to that, the Gamecocks won arguably the biggest game in their program’s history in 2010 when Steve Spurrier took down Saban 35-21. This was their first and only win against an AP #1 team. 
South Carolina is led by head coach Shane Beamer who is in his 5th season with the team. Beamer was born in Charleston, South Carolina and played college football for Virginia Tech. He is the son of legendary Virginia Tech head coach Frank Beamer. His father Frank is the winningest head coach in Hokie history. Beamer is 32-26 as the head coach of SC. Last season was his best year so far, boasting a 9-4 record, ranked #15 in the College Football Playoff rankings. This season has been a let-down for the Gamecock, currently sitting at 3-4 (1-4). The schedule doesn’t get any easier as they have #4 Alabama, #8 Ole Miss, and #3 Texas A&M as their next 3 opponents. 
SC’s offense has been lackluster in 2025, averaging only 20.1 points per game (115th nationally). The offense is led by preseason Heisman-hopeful LaNorris Sellers. Last season Sellers passed for over 2,500 yards with 18 touchdowns. He also rushed for 674 yards averaging 4.1 yards per carry, establishing himself as one of the best dual-threat quarterbacks in the nation. These numbers have fallen off dramatically in the first half of 2025. Sellers is averaging only 162 passing yards per game and only 1.3 yards per carry. The rushing stats are a bit skewed as Sellers has been sacked 25 times this season, second most in the country. SC has been dealing with a lot of offensive line injuries as 5 different linemen have been on the injury report this season. As of today, only one lineman will be out on Saturday. The Gamecocks are a running back by committee with Rahsul Faison leading the way averaging 4.4 yards per carry. Sellers has talented receivers around him to pass to. The top 2 receivers for SC this year are Vandrevius Jacobs and Nyck Harbor with 21 and 17 catches respectively. Nyck Harbor is a matchup nightmare for DBs. At 6’5, Nyck ran a 10.28 second 100-meters dash in high school. That speed and size will be difficult for Alabama to defend. South Carolina’s offense has struggled this season, but they have talent all over the field.
While the offense may be struggling, South Carolina’s defense remains stout. Last season they were 13th in the nation allowing only 18.1 points per game. Through 6 games in 2025, the defense is 34th allowing only 20.0 points per game. This is impressive considering South Carolina’s offense has the second worst time of possession in the SEC. They are allowing less points with more time spent on the field. SC’s defense is effective in clutch situations. They have only allowed 1 4th down conversion this season and are 56th in the country in red zone scoring allowed. They are also 4th in the SEC in turnovers per game. The defensive line is disruptive, led by Sophomore Dylan Stewart. Stewart had a breakout Freshman season and continues to look impressive on the edge. Their tackle leaders are DBs DQ Smith and Jalon Kilgore as teams continue to attack SC in the passing game. SC has been effective turning the ball over as they are 3rd in the SEC with 8 interceptions. South Carolina has a talented defense that can keep them in football games, regardless of how often their offense sends them back onto the field.


### **Week 9 Storylines:**
**Can Bama establish the run?:** Alabama averages 125.6 rushing yards per game which is 103rd nationally. An Alabama running back has only eclipsed 75 yards in three games this season. The passing game has been incredible, allowing Alabama to be limited in the rushing attack, but eventually Bama will need to run the ball effectively to win. Specifically, Alabama needs to get the running backs going. Germie Bernard was the leading rusher for Alabama against Tennessee, which does not look great for RBs.

**Will the Defensive Line maintain momentum?:** Alabama’s defensive line was fantastic against Tennessee, recording 4 sacks and 8 tackles for a loss. South Carolina’s offensive line has struggled this season, opening an opportunity for Bama’s improved pass-rush. If the Tide can make life difficult for Sellers, they will increase their chance of winning.

**Don’t look ahead:** Alabama made history defeating 4 ranked teams in 4 consecutive weeks. This is draining both mentally and physically. With the Bye week just past South Carolina, Alabama cannot afford to look past an unranked opponent. The Tide needs to maintain focus and attack this SEC opponent like any other.


What is your score prediction? Who will be a breakout player on offense or defense? 

As always, send any questions or comments you have my way. If you know anyone interested in joining the newsletter, send me their contact info.

Roll Tide!
-Jake 
